We can reuse the cyclic sort code and modify it.
based on this problem. Let us change the function name
to missing number. In cyclic sort
We have taken numbers from 1 to n. But in
this problem, the numbers are taken from zero to n range.
Since the array index also starts from zero, we do not
need to find the actual index value. Here index and
array[i] are the same. So we can remove this line.
Now to check
if each index has the right value, we can simply
check i and array[i]
So add the condition i not equal to array[i] in
if statement instead of array[i] not equal
to array[index]. Here we need to add another
condition.
Since one number is missing the given input will have
numbers from zero to n. But in array of size
And we can handle indices from zero to n-1 only
So before swap operation we need to check if the
number is less than size.
Otherwise we will try to swap the elements from out
of range which might lead to programme crash.
For example, let us take this array of size five
and the array elements are 0 1 5 3 4. Here we have element 5
in it But we can't access array of five right? Because
in array of size five, we can only access indices
from 0 to 4
So we need to add that condition also
So add array[i] less than size.
So the condition will be if array[i] less than
size and i not equal to array[i]
then we need to swap the numbers.
So write swap of &array[i] and
&array[array[i]] otherwise just move to next
element and continue the same process till i less than size.
So write else i++
Now we have modified the cyclic sort logic based
on this problem now we need to find the missing
number
So after the sort each element will be placed in
its right index except the missing element
So we need to compare each value to its index
If it is not equal, we need to return the
index. So write for i equal to zero, i less than size
i++ and in each iteration, check if array[i]
not equal to i then return i.
Now let us take one more situation
What if all the elements are present in right
indices after sorting? For example given an array with
elements 0 2 3 4 1. After the sorting, the array
will be 0 1 2 3 4. All the elements are present in right indices.
This is in this case this for loop won't
return anything. Here the missing element is five
So if all the elements are present in right indices, the missing element is  size. So lastly return size.